the canister is up to you so
hi hi all right elisa carol it is today we are here this morning at cnn brasil
exclusively with the Minister of the General Secretariat of the Presidency of the
republic of jorge de oliveira long time give interviews to nobody then
I thank you for having me here in your office the lack of time is the prison
there from the activist sara winter she who represents this group of supporters of
president jair bolsonaro to current information from the federal police that she
was arrested and one of the reasons has to do with the attacks on ministers of the supreme
cut as that you have been following this moment of intensification here in
Brasilia with a protester going to the streets, even firing fireworks
against the supreme federal court the first place good morning brazil good morning
everyone who watches us through cnn i learned a little bit here by the very
cnn in the forecast to pass the internet a person supporting the government of
president bolsonaro i have no way to express about
grounds that prison and the authority that determined it should really have
these motivations and obviously that any democratic regime is up to
defense and the legal instruments to counter this issue yesterday your
and made a publication and solidarity with the supreme court
the federal government is being the target of these more violent demonstrations, right?
almost repeated on Sunday but that was not possible because the governor
here in brasília the esplanade of the ministries closed, why did you take
this stance of solidarity with the ministers of the supreme court this can be
interpreted as a truce of the bolsonaro government with the supreme court a truce
between powers that we’ve been talking about this conflict between the
powers here constituted is not to be a solidarity with the supreme court
federally alone I particularly manifested myself in
my personal account dealing with the country's democracy actually all
powers have to be respected equally then the same manifestation
that I did regarding specifics against the supreme court i would like that
the other powers were also related to the executive power for a short time
we arrived here on the ramp of the plateau palace with an activist a person who
deliberately threw a bucket of paint causing damage to public property
also this is also an affront to power it is not that it does not extrapolate it is the
legitimate manifestation that is contrary to government actions is not the president
legitimately elected by 57 million Brazilians respecting democracy
respecting our electoral legislation is a president who ran for nine
elections right following the established rules faithfully comes to make your
management in the government that we are also being used not only are we not in the
personal every day in our actions we have here at different times is
actions of the president of the intention intended by both the parliament and the
supreme court recently we had the issue of delegate alexandre ramage a
highly qualified professional who, when appointed as an expert by the president
to take over the directorate general of the federal police had a determination of a
supreme court list that prevented his president from taking office yet he welcomed the
judicial decision is rendered the nomination without effect respecting the power constituted
of the supreme federal court and delegado ramalho returned to conduct the agency
Brazilian intelligence for its qualification for its posture that comes
developing there ahead of the management of the year now this natural is
understandable is the government appealed that decision the government keeps things sane
his faithful what is proposed and this is natural democracy so my
yesterday's demonstration do not remember exclusive defense of the south
in general it is defense of the powers of the republic of harmony that we have to
to have the independence that we have to have and just as we respect the
other powers we also hope that the powers also respect is the power
executive respects the president-elect so that we can govern is and
provide the population to overcome this difficult moment and accomplish that
that the population expects a lack of mutual respect between the powers and that is
flowing into the streets making people more and more hostile
but we cannot generalize but it was not as it is not of powers but sometimes there
measures that extrapolate yes so recently we did the episode here
gives a private meeting inside the white duck of the presidency building of the
republic a minister's region where the president made himself hard collections
effective their ministers we are all responsible for what
happened and the filming of what had to be just ballast
evidence of the accusation made by the former minister is in relation to a possible
interference by the president in federal public management, right?
a monocratic decision the entire content of the meeting was interned that was of
In my opinion, my feeling was an affront to the government, right?
limit of what he wants, you know, if only the object of the
empire ie the speech of the president related to the ex-minister sergio moro
ok it was in context but when i did it ended that whole meeting
dealing with things and reserved by several ministers here, that didn't work
had any object of the inquiry connected and in fact the attorney general of the union has the
taken steps is up to you to take action and the people here manifest
as a citizen even before even starting with the understanding that there was in fact a
excess was of the supreme court was not of a member of the
what we respect disagrees and this divergence that materializes the resource is
as we have been acting is on the content of the meeting there was also a
speaks of the minister of education now at the central saying that the ministers of
supreme court are bums who should be arrested this has to do with
government's opinion or is totally dissociated is not the form of the means of
proof I think she speaks for herself is his personal opinion right
finds echo and many people in society which is common sense i'm
contrary to this generalization, we cannot generalize the whole
supreme cut all 11 million supreme in her that the face is plural she
eh ministers are different if it’s information and it has to be better this way
so be it right but that we can have fun that we can
respectfully questioning your bones using the legal ways so that we
we defend that the one of faith is I know that the president defends because
the company many years is to follow the constitution the constitution has these
rules our legislation in force in the country that if the constitution language has the
its rules and we follow the relevant resources in this way, questioning us
processes our my position particularly here is technical and I know
that the president is also respecting the constitution has been respecting let's all
these years we are here with jorge de oliveira and the minister of
general secretary of the presidency of the republic and one of the men of the
the president's confidence, you are more of a lord more than a minister of government
friend has also been with the president for more than two decades is a very
also more familiar that was going to the work environment, you helped to
build this project by the government of jair bolsonaro that has been there for a year and
six months going on it's hard to be government because over those months the
people have seen some annoyances also with the resignation of the Minister of Justice
sergio moro who was an icon for the bolsonaro ita movement that also
approach of the government concentrate that it was one of the flags that he preached the
that would never happen, there is a change in behavioral posture from
thoughts on the part of the government is difficult your government is difficult is difficult
it's even very simple to explain the difficulty president was elected
breaking a historical series of relationships that existed that does not fit
here enter numerical between executive and legislative the relationship to different than
it is today so we are very charged as you said 1 and a half years ago in
government we have to solve problems for 30 years in the country
well, the collection is very hard, it is very effective both for people who
voted for the president as those who did not vote the president rules for
everyone but the collection is very strong and a year and a half of government but try to resolve
all the problems of the last 30 years and there are few problems so
president has been unfairly slacked off by those who do not support and even
recently by those who can understand that it has to be more
harder but hitting more from the front and it’s not like that we have to
understand and respect the inscriptions I speak this openly the president told me
know for a long time as you said I am not a respect militant who
be it is me build with the president this story that I was part of that
story is kiss 98 my dad already worked with him i have a contact
closer to 2003 when I went to work at the national congress
I followed the trajectory of the president president alone at the national congress
during the 28 years as being in there is used
mainly by the parties that he fought and throughout that time the
population to some extent was realizing this and most of the
population in the last election delegated to the president a grant for him to
can play the role of president of the republic in a very clear way
we don't want what is happening today
oh so I think seeing the 57 million Brazilians Fábio Presidente fulfill his
promises that we legitimate for that and that’s what we’re looking for here that
we have to be respected so also the powers have to respect the
president of the republic has to respect the executive power also this
delegation that our society in mine we here we are nothing no we do not
we are no supreme no parliamentary deputy or senator or whoever
is in the executive is nothing has the power is the people we do not have the power the power is
delegate of the people to each one of us inside and the president can be
accused of a lot of things Brasilia but one thing in particular I cannot be
accused of not concluding what he promised he is no different
of what he talked about in the campaign everything he always manifested himself the way
as he always positioned himself he’s acting as president and this is very
unclear if this is obvious even though some people disagree with some
people have a different reading than what should occur
it is but the president is legitimized by 57 million Brazilians and we have
that in this moment of crisis that we live a serious health crisis where
many families lost people we hope that this happens the most
son's quick but sometimes we get caught up in minor issues right
where we have much more serious problems to face together when I
speak we are the executive legislative legislative judiciary public prosecutor and court
of account there the population the press has a fundamental role to supervise and
charge what is not being effective but also has a fundamental role of
inform the population and seriously train the opportunity that we
can as you are doing here I thank you for that of advertising
what we actually do and I’m very comfortable here in the government
I am grateful to the president I recognize the effort he makes people do not have
idea the job president point when he struggles he practically not
sleep time is connected to everything that is happening
I see anguish of him with the suffering of people and we here minister do not
it is also no different but I also have our personal dimension, we are looking for
take with him in the best possible way each of us has a profile each of
we have a conduct it is important that it is so natural cover really and the
people looking for adding to search for the best country even the one that supports us I trust
in government with stay all of us here are wanting to do the best right and the
criticisms are welcome suggestions are excellent we have to build a
country better for everything wrong I throw the ball here so backwards anchors in are
Paulo, we’re with Carol Walnut and also Zezé that you can
follow that girls once again thank you for the kindness of the interview
before our questioning we also have a call from brasilia igor
gadelha also has a question for you please igor good morning minister and
of him here in Brasília put him in his speech that the minister
opens metal that made a good morning if I put in your speech that that criticism of
minister Abrahão will enter the meeting it was a closed meeting only yesterday he
went to meet some protesters here in brasilia and reiterated the criticism
to the ministers, right, but in a public way, seeing that it was filmed at the same time
time does not put the government in a complicated situation and does not reinforce the criticisms
other powers have been doing and then the pressure that other powers have been putting out
of the minister on account of these clashes of these criticisms how is his value
this
the vat thanks for the question so that's why open it has my total view
freedom to express himself as he wishes and what he was there
what the legislation achieved is with a libel slander if appropriate he
be punished for it he knows it as well as each of us now
recently we have to realize igor and it is important to reflect
but we already had members of the judiciary or members of the power
legislature making harsh criticisms of the president of the republic comparing
Nazi compared to hitler and tablets she likes it but we don’t want it anywhere
nowhere now brother so take on smooth
he has is a confrontation that gave strong logic it manifests itself in a way
much to see on social media is disapproved by one is praised by others
and democracy is that, then democracy is only valid on the one hand, I think it is not yet
that you have to apply for everyone freedom of expression has to apply
for all then so if it is natural and determined the ministers or
parliamentarians make personal criticisms of the theory of government because the minister
can make a personal criticism of what he feels now if he like any
a huh use an untruth you want is information or more swear it is
qualified and feeling he will answer for it like any citizen
now it cannot be purified and is going to manifest a
opinion and here I’m not taking credit for it expressing an opinion and
just because it is the apron apron will have to be treated differently
so any act that is can even is as I said the act of hostility of
supreme federal court was repudiated by me as by many people as
I also repudiated the act here of putting paint in the palace of the plateau there repudiating
and in any situation like that this is not what I want for my country I have
sure that the people who watch us now is nobody agrees with vandalism
nobody agrees with depredation and many of these pro-democracy movements in
true are the black blocs and is that they were breaking bank branches
breaking stone trade depredating public and private property then
nobody wants it nobody can defend it either way or the other is
the simple one so I think the goal of all of us is the constitution and the laws in
force in the country of education speaking a curse a swearing right then what causes
strangeness letter a and it doesn't look like he says i'm
afraid of Bethlehem in the best-selling comeback
and not each one of us speaks for myself I do not speak here I will not see there is no speech
by the government the president of the republic is I speak for my ministry I speak for
because you are a Brazilian citizen like anyone, just like the beginning, open the
beginning the work plays a role in front of the ministry of education is a job
very difficult and he tries very hard to correct a problem.
series of problems that are historical right and that’s why he has the
natural confrontations typical of democracy, governments are in fact
transient so because in a while the population decided I liked the
government did not like the government or elect the other this is how it works now is the
the president speaks for the government, you know, the president speaks for the government and it's simple
so a word in the mouth of the expletive question we have to stop at
here, this awakening is the protocol seam is swearing of the
culture of the Brazilian president and is expressed in this way with most of
of people are watching them now speak your day to day on your on your
environments but was in the reserved environment the president spoke the bad words
that are natural there, right, maybe our formal heart as it happened in
other times it did not recently broadcast a meeting of ministers as
as a sign of accountability to give opportunity to each melissa to speak there of the
generalization of his ministry that was dealing with video color and
logically that in that condition that you tried to respect it is more of a protocol
but on a daily basis the situation of each one of us is watching now that you know
how are family fights or the quickest conversations over there in football and
everything is natural the president is not is not no no I do not believe passed that he is me
I prefer his authenticity much more than the poly since words from people who
took the country where we didn’t get to mine also has the shape of it if
expressing has to be respected so it is a disapproval of what he
does you know nobody is perfect he is not perfect i am not perfect the bowl
that my friend is not perfect you there right igor who is a friend also that
we already talked I start the opportunity each of us has our imperfections
now because he is a minister of state he cannot go wrong he cannot
eventually i'm not even saying it's a mistake i'm not talking like this i'm
saying that it has road network is equal to any of us we're
here to serve the people in the best possible way than in what we need
repair we are available we have sufficient humility we do not have
compromise with the error and go back to correct try to do better this is the
our commitment is only if we continue to take advantage of it
here our schedule we always have a big debate on the new day today
with a little delay because of this exclusive interview that the
Minister of the General Secretariat of the Presidency Jorge Oliveira
moment for us and mix one more question now from yuri pitta
hi free minister good morning thank you for being with us here at cnn you spoke
now little about the disclosure is practically in full except for the
mentions to other countries of that April twenty-second meeting but at that
minister celso de mello's decision four times in the decision says no
was aware of the secret classification of that meeting that was only
taken by the government on the 8th of May, that is to say 16 days after the
April twenty-second meeting itself why was there such a delay in
classification of the meeting as secret and why does the minister of supreme
federal court was not informed about this classification
and it is in fact there was no delay document will be classified forever
it is as soon as the meeting ended there I started the glue to dry now
independent of the supreme court, minister celso de mello is aware that the
that recording was classified, that is, a tin is a reserved character
right of the treaty here in the presidency the shampoo content didn’t hold any
relationship with the empire bodies this is the divergence the inquiry he had a
purpose that was to confront a statement by the ex-minister sergio moro
everything else had no relevance that the empire
good so that's enough I didn't even need to formally have
classification a reserved environment within the presidency of the republic he
dealing with matters was being dealt with there many things are
constructions each minister of collaboration each brings an approach on their
folder is treats sensitive themes eventually are themes that are in
construction this can influence the stock market
influencing the dollar can influence a number of things that are still at
construction now independent of that were speak the place where we ministers
meeting president making effective collections in a slightly more
vehement than usual usually the nodes have a very good climate so they
are very prepared here but on that special day the president had a
more affective certainty collection and each minister about his perspective of this
contribution in the same tone respecting the law obviously what what was possible
and in fact the non-conformity is a repair that is done and that
attorney general of the union diligently expressed in the case file is
there was a speech exhibition that had no connection with the object of the empire
none of us like that i wanted a very important learning that we
has been since childhood I thank my parents for that is why we shouldn't
do with people what you wouldn’t like them to do with us this is
basic learning is good for anything, you know, so we just need
reverse and if it was the other way around then
and if we’re going to imagine that the federal police having the party more than a series
information should advertise something beyond what was demanded
investigate then a simple reflection i think those those learned
that we have our personal life they also reflect in our life
right do not do with others what we would not like
do with us this is simple recently even in a meeting with
businessmen there inside the supreme federal court advising
the presidency's communication transmitted, right, he put film equipment there and the
minister toffoli supreme court president didn't even know it was being recorded
right, the meeting was being broadcast I was not present there
in that meeting I don't know if the start itself is not necessary if he
consented it will not be contrary to that exhibition the fact is that it was being done
an ostentatious recording and I wonder if he hadn't confused
the transmission would not have asked for it not to do it, it is and it was a journey that the
president went with some businessmen was not present there but I did not see any
like there was no sensitivity it was just the speech of the president of the
people who followed up taking a lawsuit to the federal supreme court then
there for the very end of our interview we saw that the supreme court
federal government has not confirmed a kind of moderating power the armed forces that
I think of this discussion of a possible military intervention to
possibility of that and just to complete the sound is the new minister of
supreme federal court for this vacancy that will be opened soon i
raised the issue of the moderating power of the armed forces is the manifestation of the
minister is precise and says what the constitution already openly says its
Our country’s weapons are a source of pride for every Brazilian regardless of
who supports and armed between fulfilled a role
institutionally in a very significant way in we have navy
Brazilian air force army that plays a fantastic role in every corner
of our country so in the greatest difficulties that will be there in a
military of the armed forces is reaching out right as is the motto of the army arm
strong helping hand so it is a source of pride for all of us regardless of
government and the constitutional role and instruction of the armed forces is very
of course and they’ve been doing it very very effectively and I’m sure that
are not going to deviate from that is not what we all struggle to have a regime
democratic country president bolsonaro as he said the Brazilian he could
be accusing of anything less than being an undemocratic person and
disputed nine elections respecting all the rules came to power legitimately
in voting without any kind of interference so your armed forces fulfill that role
that the bright is the manifestation of the mini and then it needs just as it was needed
demonstration that made the president the vice president and the minister of defense
general fernando so here in the palace we have generals with general heleno
general branches is the new payment in the government we are at the very high start
in that landmarks bridges also of the air force minister tarcísio they are worth are
friends since the time of military school for the ax group of assis has a lot
is very proud here of the position of the work that they make the pepper and the
military today add to the country adds to the government contributing what they
can do it if in case he is doing a transitional job ahead of
ministry of health important ministry that has been overcoming
difficulties doing an excellent job so we no longer have the situation
civil society as if there were in the military society in parallel society
we build one government together, the proof of that we have here today
military of the three armed forces i'm a military police officer here with a lot
and it represents a measure the state police from all over brazil we have
federal civilian highway police officers in all areas of government and
as soon as we add up as soon as we build a better society and that we don't
can we have that as the brazilian people and this is a positive speech
for example, from the adventurous minister the people of Brasilia, only we have to
unite to overcome difficulties divergences are important criticisms
they are important they make us have women make us reflect on make them improve that
that we do but we have to unite us as the Brazilian people and say that the
need people now became minister of justice now the discussion
the public security ministry I know that the new one of the new portfolio, right, but also
there is the possibility of you being a name for the vacancy behind the scenes
good federal supreme court minister if i count on the trust of the
president there bolsonaro will you
the bread of posts I am at the disposal of the president if he wants because he
need is I have a history with him for some years has been following since
the time of the greatest difficulties and today with other difficulties here in the government
is when in relation to the public security ministry as a military policeman
as someone egressed from an extension of public security defended
yes, as it already publicly defends the creation of the Ministry of Security
today is very well conducted by minister andré mendonça who accumulates
right, the part of justice that he already had a brilliant role in aggeo today
at the head of the Ministry of Justice and Public Security has done much
the resumption of that portfolio briefly giving in fact to the governing bodies
public security conditions to act more freely in the eyes
visas you can research the federal police has already made more achievements the
federal road police made more achievements
drug seizures there recently a brilliant job conducted there by
by the audio who is the director of the federal highway police so I'm
so enthusiastic about the recreation of the public security portfolio logically that the
how it will be recreated and the moment will still be decided and are you sure that
myles andré is open yes ah this discussion the parliamentary front of
public security of the congress a proposal has materialized here it has
some technical repairs acp and it's a decision of the president and the time
opportune we always have a part we have to move many positions
times taking away as we did now in the ministry of communication taking part
of the Ministry of Science and Technology leaves here from the Government Secretariat to
create a new ministry in this specific case do not know fragmenting the
ministry of justice and public security the way and the time to occur
this maybe a little further ahead is hot or only parliament hear is the vision
of parliamentarians and with that and it is very important with
relation to the supreme federal court is as i told you i am at the disposal
of the president I see that we have here and then my private crowd is for the
indication of the month andré mendonça is like him i have his son from the print who
it is like that doctor levy also that are natural are understandable the aggressions
norms criticisms are always welcome right but i'm sure he is a
a good person a good professional has tried to do the best for the country and
consequently the government until the minister is already olive tree of the
general secretary of the presidency of the republic in this exclusive interview to
cnn brasil thank you for having me here thank you brazilian thank you all